protests against Israel's war and Gaza
are growing at universities across the
US these are the scenes at Colombia
University where students are camping
out despite dozens of arrests on Monday
students from Massachusetts to
California are calling for universities
to cut ties with us companies that
profit from the war Kristen salumi is
joining us from outside Columbia
University so despite the arrest Kristen
more
protests absolutely it's a bit quieter
today than it was last night when the
campus was uh very animated and loud and
uh there were rumors of the encampment
being cleared yet again and
demonstrators showed up outside of the
campus as well as on the campus to
support the cause of uh ceasefire in
Gaza today you can see behind me there's
still a massive police presence here
there's barricade set up all around the
campus uh to try to keep things calm and
uh we are joined Now by a professor a
faculty member here a lecturer basam
Kaja who is with the law school thank
you so much for coming and giving us the
latest information uh I know dozens of
Faculty came out on Monday to support
and protest the arrests of the students
uh do you think they represent the
majority of Faculty
here it's hard to say if they represent
the majority but the number of Faculty
are really Furious that the University
president made the decision to call New
York City's Police Department Department
onto Campus Police Department the
history of brutality um this was made
opposed to the Senate University Senate
that objected to the this happening um
we are really Furious um 100 of us came
and stood on the steps a few days ago to
protest this decision 54 members of the
law schools permanent faculty wrote
directly to the president objecting to
it and so there's quite a bit of anger
Among The Faculty even among people who
don't support the protesters of the fact
that the New York City Police Department
has brought in against what is
essentially a peaceful protest students
camping out on a lawn yeah you mentioned
the Columbia Senate who is involved in
the Columbia Senate and there were some
rumors of a censure resolution against
the president shafik because of the way
the police were called in is that
correct what's the latest there yeah so
the university Senate is made up of
Faculty students administrators um the
president is required to consult the
Senate prior to bringing in the police
she did that the Senate rejected it and
she went ahead anyways um by all
accounts now she is up for a centure by
the Senate and I think that reflects the
extent of the anger on the campus uh
against this decision uh Speaker of the
House of Representatives Mike Johnson
due to visit the campus this afternoon
he's going to meet with Jewish students
and speak to the media about what he
calls the rising anti-Semitism on
college campuses um would you agree that
there is rising
anti-Semitism I think anti-Semitism has
no place on our campus we need to be
very clear about that at the same time
we need to be clear that advocating for
palestin human rights is not in itself
anti-semitic and I would encourage
speaker Johnson to go to the camp to
meet with protesters there many of whom
were Jewish I saw them holding a
Passover sedor there a few days ago um
and I think if he's going to be speaking
with Jewish students on campus you
should make sure to speak with all of
them that people resenting all of views
on campus and the governor Kathy hokel
has been here as well um there's been
concerns raised about the National Guard
being called in is that something that
you're hearing what are what are
students talking about feeling and are
do you feel the commitment that they're
going to stay um despite this 48 hour
deadline the students many of them are
committed to staying in the encampment
there's been a lot of rumors swirling
about the New York Police Department the
National Guard coming back in um looking
around it seems very difficult to
justify that again these are students
peacefully camping out on the lawn when
I've been there most of the time they're
studying and so the idea of calling in
troops to a campus uh where again this
is a peaceful protest just seems way
above the mark in terms of what's
Justified here the school has been very
vague when they've raised security
concerns about what it is they're
talking about and it should be a very
high bar bring in police on your own
students awesome thank you so much for
joining us and giving us the latest here
I'm sure we'll talk to you again soon uh
you heard it there from a lecture here
at Columbia University this is where it
all started this latest wave of college
demonstrations that we're seeing expand
across the country with uh the
University of Texas uh holding a sit in
uh the Brown University now also has an
encampment on their campus uh and about
a dozen others at least across the
country now with Pro Palestinian rallies
taking place Kristen Simi talking to us
from New York Kristen thank you very
much
indeed make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer